docs: Add docs on pricing and API requests. Improve real-time docs (#4566)
Flagsmith/flagsmith: docs/docs/pricing/index.mdx

---
title: Pricing and API usage
sidebar_position: 120
sidebar_label: Pricing
---

When you use Flagsmith on Flagsmith-managed infrastructure (SaaS or private cloud), your pricing plan has a limit of API
requests per month. This document describes how these limits work, and how to estimate how many API requests your
applications will need.

:::tip

Self-hosted Flagsmith installations do not have API request limits.

:::

## How can I check my current usage?

To check your API usage for the past 90 days:

1. Log in to the Flagsmith dashboard as an organisation administrator.
2. Click on your organisation name in the top left.
3. Browse to the **Usage** tab.

From this page, you can break down usage per project and per environment.

The following screenshot shows an example usage graph from the Flagsmith dashboard:

![img.png](usage-graph.png)

## What counts as an API request?

> Any operation that calls Flagsmith's API to retrieve information about the current state of flags counts as 1 billable

Reviewer: Hmm... this isn't completely true. We should also include something about identifying an identity and/or updating an identity's traits.

Author: Identifying an identity still returns the current state of flags - it's the current state of flags as seen by a specific user.

Updating an identity's traits also returns the current state of flags for the identity that is being updated.

I tried to make this as generic as possible while not overwhelming with technical details, considering the audience for this document includes people who have not used Flagsmith at all.

Author: I also tried to make this explicit in the example below:

> The device calls Flagsmith to update this user's traits and receives their latest flags in return (1 API request).

Reviewer: I think we can solve any ambiguity here with a minor change to the wording: 

```suggestion
Any operation that calls Flagsmith's API to retrieve information about the current state of flags and/or persist an identity or their traits counts as 1 billable
```

Author: I think having this level of technical detail in the first sentence does more harm than good. We don't need to introduce the concepts of identity or trait at this point - I've specifically avoided using the word "identity" as a Flagsmith concept in this doc to make it accessible for a wider audience, especially less-technical decision makers who don't care about these details.

In a separate PR, I could add a dedicated section with details on what actual endpoints are billed, things like `/flags`, `/identities`, `/environment-document` etc to detail the actual specifics.

Author: Another way to word this that is technically more accurate and doesn't add complexity could be:

```suggestion
Any operation that calls Flagsmith's API and retrieves information about the current state of flags and/or persist an identity or their traits counts as 1 billable
```

Reviewer: Yep, good with me, apart from one minor typo: `persist` -> `persists`

-   [Admin API](/clients/rest#private-admin-api-endpoints) requests.
-   Requests made by Flagsmith SDKs to track [Flag Analytics](/advanced-use/flag-analytics).
-   Connecting to a [real-time flag updates](/advanced-use/real-time-flags) stream.

### Example: client-side application

Consider a website or mobile application that can be used by anonymous or authenticated users. A typical session would
look like this:

1. A user visits the application for the first time. The user's device calls Flagsmith to get the flags for the
   production environment (1 API request).
2. The user logs in to their account. Now that we know the user's identity, their device calls Flagsmith to get the
   flags for this specific user, taking into account their
   [A/B tests or progressive rollouts](/advanced-use/ab-testing), [segments](/basic-features/segments) and user-specific
   flags (1 API request). Any user data sent by your application is stored by Flagsmith as traits.
3. The user performs some action that should update their stored data in Flagsmith. The device calls Flagsmith to update
   this user's traits and receives their latest flags in return (1 API request).

> Because these API requests were made using Remote Evaluation, they would all send data to any analytics

Reviewer: This isn't necessarily true. Probably the first request when the user is unauthenticated will not send any event.

Author: True - looking back, I don't know why I've included this, it's not relevant to knowing how API usage is calculated. I'll remove it
